Better explanation for why `innerHTML` is not a good substitute for `textContent` (#40506)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/node/textcontent/index.md

### Differences from innerHTML

> {{domxref("Element.innerHTML")}} gets or sets HTML, as its name indicates. Sometimes people use `innerHTML` to get or set text inside an element, but it is unsuited to this purpose, as it deals with raw HTML rather than plain text and can be susceptible to {{glossary("Cross-site_scripting", "XSS attacks")}}. Use `textContent` instead for this purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{domxref("Element.innerHTML")}} gets or sets HTML, as its name indicates. We advise against using `innerHTML` to get or set text inside an element because it deals with raw HTML rather than plain text and can be susceptible to {{glossary("Cross-site_scripting", "XSS attacks")}}. Even if you are sure that the text never contains HTML syntax, it is still less semantic and slower because it needs to invoke the HTML parser.
```

### Differences from innerHTML

{{domxref("Element.innerHTML")}} returns HTML, as its name indicates. Sometimes people
use `innerHTML` to retrieve or write text inside an element, but it is unsuited to
this purpose, as it deals with raw HTML rather than plain text and can be succeptable

> to {{glossary("Cross-site_scripting", "XSS attacks")}}. Use `textContent` instead.

Reviewer: 1. Remove the line wrapping
2. I would still suggest adding something about performance. Something like "Even if you are completely sure that there's no HTML injection risk, using `innerHTML` is slower because it invokes the HTML parser even when there's no HTML markup to insert".
3. Spelling: "susceptible"

Author: Fixed 1, 3, and 4. I don't agree that performance should be mentioned, as I can't think of a case where it would be a worthwhile consideration over other concerns.

For example, if multiplication is slower than addition, you would never cite performance as a reason to use addition over multiplication. Correctness is the only concern worth mentioning in this case, even if they happen to give the same result in certain cases (1*2*3 == 1+2+3).

Reviewer: For the first one, my suggestion as outlined above is to use DOM methods. The reason is two-fold:(1) later you may decide to parameterize your markup and you need to refactor it anyway (2) even using multiple DOM methods in JS is still faster than invoking the HTML parser. In this example:

```js
const x = document.createElement("div")
x.innerHTML = "<b>foo</b>"
```

```js
const x = document.createElement("div")
const b = document.createElement("b")
b.textContent = "foo"
x.appendChild(b)
```

I benchmarked this in Chrome and the second one is 35% faster.

> Performance characteristics aren't relevant here.

Performance is always relevant. If you have two methods that do the same thing, always pick the faster one. MDN is opinionated and we need to give authoritative guidelines about preferences whenever there's a choice for our readers.

> The second is semantically wrong

People do do that, so we need to dissuade them. You can of course explicitly write that in content ("Don't use `innerHTML` where `textContent` would do the same thing because it's semantically wrong"), but I'm just collecting more reasons because people do argue against our suggestions and we need to really buff our arguments.
